# Wayland Protocol Code Generator

Code generation for Wayland protocols, for use without libwayland.
Generated code is NOT ABI compatible with libwayland.

I wrote this to use in my own projects to avoid the callback-heavy
interface provided by libwayland and the standard wayland-scanner.

This generator currently only supports generating Zig code, but I plan
to add an option to emit the code as a single-header C library too.


I'll probably also give this all a cleanup pass soon. This code was all
written rather quickly and probably can be tidied up.

## Usage

### CLI

The binary can be produced by invoking `zig build` in the project root
and `protocols.zig` can be generated by running the program as below:

```
# The program can be run with as many input protocols as you'd like
$ ./zig-out/bin/wayland-protocol-generator -o protocols.zig path/to/wayland.xml path/to/protocol1.xml path/to/protocolN.xml
```

This will read in all provided xml files and produce a single `protocols.zig`
which will include the code for each protocol.

The core wayland protocol can be found at
https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/wayland/wayland and additional protocol
specifications can be found at
https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/wayland/wayland-protocols


### Generation Via Build.zig

You can use the zig build system to generate `protocols.zig` and expose it
as a module as follows:

Add this repo as a dependency. You can do this manually or by invoking:

```shell
$ zig fetch --save git+https://github.com/ptrToLiam/wayland-protocol-codegen
```

Then add some lines such as the following to your `build.zig`:

```zig
const wayland_protocol_specifications = [_]std.Build.LazyPath{
  b.path("path/to/wayland.xml"),
  b.path("path/to/protocol1.xml"),
  b.path("path/to/protocolN.xml"),
  ...,
};

const wayland_protocols = b.dependency("wayland_protocol_codegen", .{
  .protocols = &wayland_protocol_specifications,
}).module("wayland-protocols");
exe.root_module.addImport("wayland-protocols", wayland_protocols);
```

This will allow you to import the protocol code with
`@import("wayland-protocols")` in your executable module's source code.

